MEMORANDUM 
 
TO:  Georgia Tech Athletic Association (GTAA) Coaches and Administrative Staff 
 
FROM:             Marvin Lewis, Associate AD – Finance & Administration   Rick Thorpe, Associate AD – Sales & Fan Engagement 
 
DATE:  August 19, 2015 
 
RE:              Taxability of Complimentary Football Tickets - Season and Single Game 
 
In response to increased audit emphasis and an effort to ensure compliance with IRS tax guidelines, GTAA will be implementing new policies and procedures related to the treatment of complimentary season and single game tickets provided to employees. 
 
FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS  
 
In the past, complimentary season tickets provided to employees were only taxed for individual games that were deemed a “sell out”.  Per IRS regulations, season tickets provided to employees are considered taxable fringe benefits and are subject to taxation regardless of individual “sell outs”.  Therefore, GTAA will be reporting on the full value of complimentary season tickets provided to employees during the 2015-2016 year.   
 
The IRS requires that complimentary season tickets be treated as income and reported as a “benefit” with 80% of the face value subject to taxation.  Please see the example below.     EXAMPLE  Two (2) Season Tickets @ Face Value = $280/ticket $560.00 80% of Face Value ($560 x 80%) $448.00 Cost to Employee/Estimated Taxes Withheld ($448 x 33%)* $147.84 *Note that the actual amount of tax withheld on complimentary season tickets is dependent on each employee’s individual tax situation (tax bracket, number of dependents, etc.) and cannot be determined by GTAA.   
 
Employees will have the option to accept, reduce, or decline their complimentary season ticket allocation by submitting the 2015 Football Season Ticket Request Form (link below).  Please complete and submit the form to the Ticket Office by no later than Tuesday, August 25th, 2015.  If season tickets are accepted, one will have the option of being taxed for the full value in one pay period or divided over a four (4) month period in equal installments.  If you elect to not accept the complimentary season ticket allocation, single game tickets will be available upon request as detailed below.   
 
Upon notification that the tickets are ready for pick up, each employee will be required to sign for their season tickets in the Ticket Office.  No tickets will be released to anyone who has not completed the form.   
 
Due to the high demand for this upcoming Football season, our premium inventory has already “sold out” and we anticipate limited single game inventory for Virginia Tech and Georgia.  Florida State single game tickets are already “sold out” and the only way to gain access to this game is with a season ticket.  Therefore, we strongly encourage GTAA staff to accept season tickets at this time and not wait to request tickets since inventory may not be available. 
 
TICKET ALLOCATIONS 
 
Contracted employees will receive the season ticket allocation detailed in their employment agreement.  Full-time employees without an employment contract will be permitted to receive two (2) complimentary season tickets for the 2015 Football season.   
 
Part-time employees are permitted to request single game tickets only. 
 
PARKING PASSES 
 
If an employee needs a parking pass for the upcoming Football season, it MUST be requested via the Football Season Ticket Request Form in addition to your game tickets as noted above (excludes employees provided a parking pass due to work responsibilities).  Parking passes will be emailed in late August and its value is also subject to taxation. 
 
SINGLE GAME TICKETS 
 
Similar to prior years, single game tickets are not subject to taxation as long as the venue isn’t declared a “sellout”.  There will be a small pool of staff tickets held for single game requests to be distributed on a first come first serve basis (excluding Florida State).  All requests must be submitted to the Ticket Office by 5pm on the Tuesday preceding each home game via the 2015 Football Individual Game Ticket Request Form (link below).  Tickets will be available for pickup in the Ticket Office Monday through Friday from 9am to 5pm.   
 
PROHIBITED USES 
 
Please note that under no circumstances may complimentary tickets be sold, traded, or bartered for goods and services.  Also, complimentary tickets may not be provided to prospective student-athletes and/or their parent(s), legal guardian(s), friend(s), or any third party associated with a prospective student-athlete, including but not limited to high school and nonscholastic coaches, agents, advisors, and trainers.  Any violation of the policy could result in the loss of complimentary ticket privileges as well as termination of employment for misconduct. 
 
FORMS 
 
2015 Football Season Ticket Request Form https://portal.acsathletics.com/FormBuilder/RenderForm.aspx?org_id=855&form_id=139841&staff_id= 23807 
 
2015 Football Individual Game Ticket Request Form https://portal.acsathletics.com/FormBuilder/RenderForm.aspx?org_id=855&form_id=139855&staff_id= 23807 
 
QUESTIONS 
 
If you have any questions or concerns related to the taxability of season tickets and/or the impact on your W-2, please contact Marvin Lewis or Rick Thorpe.  For questions related to securing season or single game tickets, please contact Laura Dinger (Assistant Director – Ticket Operations). 
 
Thanks and we look forward to a great year for all of our sports! 